state:modified for functions (#8967)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/udfs.md

    ```
    </File>

>     When using [`--defer`](/reference/node-selection/defer), `function()` resolves to the UDF definition from the state manifest (for example, a production environment) if the function is not selected or not yet built in your target environment. This allows models that depend on UDFs to run successfully in [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) and development workflows.

Reviewer: Hiya Bianca,

The sentence "`function()` resolves to a “state manifest,” but it doesn’t say how you provide that manifest. I had a look at the [Configure state selection](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/node-selection/configure-state?version=2.0) doc and it call this out explicitly. It might be worth mentioning that deferral requires `--state PATH` (or the equivalent env var), and that --defer-state can override it?

Reviewer: Just to follow on from this, it might be good to clarify what we mean by “UDF definition” here?

It might help to spell out that this is referring to the previously built function in the deferred environment — “definition from the manifest” could be read as dbt recreating the DDL from metadata rather than pointing to an existing object.

Author: Hey @nataliefiann , great callout! What do you think about this:
```suggestion
    When using [`--defer`](/reference/node-selection/defer), `function()` resolves to the existing UDF in the deferred environment (for example, production) if the function is not selected or not yet built in your target environment. This requires a state manifest specified using `--state` or an equivalent environment variable (such as `DBT_ENGINE_STATE`), which dbt uses to determine where to defer. This allows models that depend on UDFs to run successfully in [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) and development workflows. For more information, refer to [Configure state selection](/reference/node-selection/configure-state).
```

    In your DAG, a UDF node is created from the SQL/Python and YAML definitions, and there will be a dependency between `is_positive_int` → `my_model`.
   <Lightbox src="/img/docs/building-a-dbt-project/UDF-DAG.png" width="85%" title="The DAG for the UDF node" />

> After defining a UDF, if you update the SQL/Python file that contains its function body (`is_positive_int.sql` or `is_positive_int.py` in this example), its configurations, or its properties defined in the `.yml` file (such as `arguments` or `returns`), your changes will be applied to the UDF in the warehouse next time you `build`. dbt detects all of these changes when using [`state:modified`](/reference/node-selection/methods#state).

Reviewer: Hiya Bianca

The [issue](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/issues/12547) describes the current behavior as `state:modified` not detecting changes to function properties in `.yml` (like arguments and returns), but this paragraph says dbt detects all of those changes. Should we adjust the wording maybe?

Author: Hey @nataliefiann , the bug was fixed and was resolved by this PR: https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-core/pull/12548. `state:modified` can now detect changes to function properties as well. Let me know if you think it would still be helpful to clarify further.
